Before I welcome on our first wonderful,
esteemed keynote
presenter, I want to leave a little
quote from Albert Hoffman after he had
his great first psychedelic
experience. The psychedelics gave me an
inner joy, an open-mindedness, a
gratefulness, open eyes, and an internal
sensitivity for the miracles of
creation. I think that in human
evolution has never been as necessary to
have the substance of LSD. It is just a
tool to turn us into what we're always
supposed to be. Now, with that, I want
to welcome onto the stage here in just a
moment Dr. Christopher
Beige, who is a professor emmeritus in
the department of philosophy and
religious studies at Youngstown State
University, where he taught for 33
years. He's also an adjunct professor at
the California Institute of Integral
Studies, an ameritus fellow at the
Institute of Noetic Sciences, is on the
advisory board of the Gra Legacy
Training. Chris's work explores the
philosophical implications of
non-ordinary states of consciousness,
especially psychedelic states. He's an
award-winning teacher and international
speaker. Chris has written four books.
Life cycles, a study of reincarnation in
light of contemporary consciousness
research, dark night, early dawn, a
pioneering work in psychedelic
philosophy and collective consciousness.
The living classroom, an exploration of
collective fields of consciousness in
teaching, and of course, what many of
you might be familiar with today, LSD in
the mind of the universe, the story of
his 20-year journey with LSD. Everyone,
please welcome Dr. Christopher Beige.
[Applause]
What an honor to be here with you today
to celebrate Bicycle with you today. an
opportunity for the psychedelic
community to come together, to see each
other, to reunite, make plans for the
future. Now, I know what you're probably
thinking. You look at me and you think,
"He doesn't look like he's done a whole
lot of
LSD. I think the divine designed me as
an undercover agent for the psychedelic
revolution.
It's amazing what you can get away with
in a university classroom if you look
like an accountant. You
know, I tell my students sometimes if I
look like on the outside, like I think
on the inside, I would probably look
like Jerry
Garcia.
So, 82 years since Bicycle
Day. 82 years. We've come a long way.
who come this think of how many people
are doing psychedelics regularly 82
years after Albert Hoffman's first
famous bicycle
ride and the reasons we use psychedelics
what draws us into psychedelics and how
we use them vary enormously. I mean, if
we were to do an inventory of everyone
in this room, we would find so many
different approaches to psychedelics, so
many different methodologies and using
psychedelics and so many different
results coming out of that. And the
psychedelic testimony of the
community together is always more
important than the psychedelic testimony
of any one individual because it's just
so many medicines, so many ways in which
it impacts human consciousness. So many
ways in which we can use them to draw
out the deeper reserves of human
consciousness that always the collective
is more important than the work of an
individual.
But what I'd like to do to sort of help
seed our awareness is sort of talk about
my work some and talk about some of the
potentials that lie, I think, untapped
so far in the current psychedelic
renaissance. The current psychedelic
renaissance is focused primarily first
on healing. That's how we're getting it
psychedelics back into uh the academic
discussion, back into the intellectual
discussion, back into the mainstream is
demonstrating psychedelics capacity to
heal the wounds of broken heart, to heal
the wounds of life, even to heal the
wounds of the soul if it goes deeper.
And this is critically important. And I
understand all the scientific brethren
who are working hard to document and
legitimate and to verify the psychedel
the healing that psychedelics can
facilitate and to refine our ability to
integrate them into our psychedelic into
our clinical practice. Really really
very
important. But for me this is kind of
just like the first stage the first step
into the deep waters that psychedelics
make available. If you think of the
ocean of consciousness of of
consciousness as an ocean to me healing
or maybe using psychedelics to augment
creativity another separate function or
to sort of generate insights to go to
psychedelic states in order to gather
insights that one might use to apply to
one's life or changing circumstances
when you have a choice I mean every time
I have an important choice I mean a big
important choice
I'm not going to address that only in my
ordinary state of consciousness. I will
go into psychedelic space to get that
little larger expansion, a little more
dilation, a little more communion, a
little more intake and bring my
questions there and then seek the
guidance that I'm asking for and I
follow the advice I get there. I follow
that advice in terms of what books I
write next, where the people are, where
to go with the
research,
healing, creativity, enhancing
creativity. I think my friend Alex Gray
and all the psychedelic artists in the
movement,
Insight, but these to me collectively
are still only in the the shallow waters
of the ocean near the shore near where
we live in the personal world. But then
there is what if we go deeper? What if
we use our psychedelic protocols to go
deeper into the ocean of consciousness
and we begin to get into the area uh of
spiritual awakening and I'm thinking for
example of the dialogue between the Zen
Buddhist between the Buddhist community
and the psychedelic community that was
published years ago zigzag zen which is
the question of are psychedelics useful
in the facilitation of genuine
enlightenment or are they a hindrance as
classical Buddhists would hold.
Spiritual awakening is different than
healing. It's different than creativity
because here we're using psychedelics to
break into the deeper universal themes
of human
existence.
Enlightenment is not about personal
healing. You may go through personal
healing of course to move there but
enlightenment is talking is really
grappling with the fundamental human
condition at its core. What is the core
struggle that we are working with here?
What are the core issues we're dealing
with? What is the nature of my
identity? Underneath all the social
conditioning, all the all the
psychological conditioning underneath
underneath we feel that there's
something more authentic underneath.
What is that deeper identity? Until
eventually we come to some type of
realization that the Hindus described as
Atman. The essence of the individual is
Brahman. The essence of the totality,
the essence of God. Atman is Brahman.
Awakening
to just immersing ourselves into seeing
first and then entering into communion
with the creative intelligence of the
universe that permeates all things.
different than
healing, right? Broad, deep, something
which we share with all other human
beings. Our personal problems we may not
share with all human beings, but the
deep spiritual questions, the deep
seeking at that underneath level, we
share with all human
beings. To me though, healing,
creativity, insight, spiritual
awakening, however you conceptualize
that, however you imagine
that, is still only into the sort of
midwaters of the ocean of consciousness.
And what I'd like to talk to you about
today is what I call cosmological
exploration.
Using psychedelics in a manner to probe
the deep structure of reality at the
deepest levels possible to see,
experience, understand what is the
underlying structure of human existence.
What are the layers of human existence?
What is the source of creativity? The
creativity that gave birth to our
universe 13.7 billion years ago. My
psychedelic journey began 45 years ago
when I was a brand new academic, freshly
minted out of the graduate school,
beginning my academic work and I was a
pretty much an atheisticallyincclined
agnostic at the time. That's what seven
years of graduate school and religious
studies made in
me. And then I met Stan Gra's work. I
met two people's work my first year. Ian
Stevenson whose work in reincarnation
convinced me in one reading that
reincarnation was a fact of life just a
simple empirical fact of life deal with
it you know and as an academic that
wasn't part of my worldview at all in
all of my training but then secondly
more importantly with Stan Gra I read
his book realms of the human unconscious
which turned my life it was a major
pivot
point and so I began the psych
psychedelic therapeutically oriented
work that I knew knew would be required
for me to have access to the kind of
experiences that would allow me to
hopefully make some kind of contribution
to my discipline which is philosophy of
religion. So I started a psychedelic
practice which after three medium dose
sessions ended up I ended up developing
a facility for working with high doses
of LSD and developing a protocol
following Stan GR's protocol. You know
the you know the drill, right? Total
isolation. This is not group therapy,
group work. Total isolation, private,
protected with a sitter, carefully
curated playlist, all day engagement,
start to finish, long
day. And I chose to work with 500 to 600
micrograms of LSD.
And I don't recommend that
protocol
truly knowing what I know now. At the
end of that journey, I would do it
differently. If I were starting over
again, I would work with lower doses. I
would balance periodically maybe working
with high doses of LSD with maybe
intermediate sessions of psilocybin or
Iwasa. And I have experience with all
those psychedelics that I mentioned, but
my primary work has been with LSD. So it
maybe it's appropriate to to speak to
that on bicycle day which we honor
here. I chose to work in a strand gra
kind of
paradigm protocol always in isolation
and take these massive doses of
psychedelics. I was taking about doing
it about on average five times a year
when I stepped back and looked at it all
and it ended up lasting 20 years. I
worked for four years. I stopped for six
years and then I resumed again for a
very intense 10 years. And over that
20-year period, which was between when I
was 30 and when I was 50 years old. So I
was at kind of in the just started my
Saturn return at
2930. My whole Saturn second Saturn
cycle was all under uh my psychedelic
work. And then uh I stopped when I was
50 years old and I didn't publish LSD in
the mind of the universe for another 20
years for a couple of reasons. One is if
I published that book as an academic, I
probably would have been fired because
the good people of Ohio where I was
teaching don't like their university
professors doing massive doses of LSD on
the weekend, you know. So I had to kind
of all my work was secret. None of my
students ever knew what I was doing. My
faculty, my close friends on the campus
knew what I was doing, but they didn't
really know. They didn't understand it.
We didn't go into those
conversations. It would usually start.
Yeah, I remember. I did some
psychedelics back in the day. Yeah,
good. Good for you. Yeah.
But when you're doing 500 and 600
micrograms amplified by the
intensification of the most powerful
music that I could pull down from the
world stage of music and just drive it
completely hard, you just shatter your
mind. You shatter consciousness. you
just blow it all
apart, which is a dangerous undertaking
unless you're really prepared and you
really have your seat belt fast and
tight and you have a strong support
system and good clinical grounding and
you have a pretty solid sense of self.
It's not wise to blow yourself apart
that
often. But I found I had a capacity and
it's astrologically it's in my chart. I
have a capacity to get open spacious
Neptune opening up into deep states and
then I have a I congeal easily. I
congeal well. So the opening and the
expanding I could manage and
then I found over the first few years
that I had a capacity to navigate this
domain and I developed an interest in
working this hard because what
interested me was not the clinical
applications. It wasn't the creative
applications. What interested me was the
capacity of LSD to take me into states
where I could truly enter into the
communion with the intelligence of the
universe and then that intelligence
would teach me just like we all have
that experience, right? You open up, you
go deep, you open into this larger
field, you clean up your housework, you
know, you got to clean up this and clean
up that. But when you're clean, when you
get out and you take in this larger, it
speaks to you. It teaches you. I've
often wished that I had advanced degrees
in quantum physics and astronomy,
uh, quantum astronomy, because if I had,
I would have been able to understand so
much more of what it was teaching to me.
But I had my background was in
philosophy, religious studies. So it it
took me into those areas that I was most
interested in which is to understand the
paradoxes of the human condition. Why is
it so hard here? Why is human existence
so hard? Why is there so much suffering?
Why are we so estranged from our
deepest connection to the
universe? What where is reincarnation?
Since I took that into my psychedelic,
where is reincarnation taking humanity?
Where are we going? Because
reincarnation lifts time off of our
restricted does time ceases to be a
restriction. Once you understand that
we're reincarnating when reincarnating,
we're reincarnating. There's no place to
go after you leave here, you come back.
You leave here, you come back. And you
begin to open up a time
horizon which is beginning to understand
perhaps the time horizon that the divine
thinks in because the divine does not
think in small- term projects and the
divine does not think in personal
projects itself. It thinks in large
projects in species projects in
planetary projects. It thinks in
galactic size projects. So the challenge
becomes how do we let ourselves begin to
think experience in galactic size
projects. And if you and the first is to
unlock the barrier of linear time to let
yourself go beyond the confines of this
process this particular moment as
magnificent as it is as beautiful as it
is and this of course is where the
divine lives is in the present moment.
So a lot of spiritual practices focus on
deepening deepening experience of the
present. But in psychedelic
work there is a potential to transcend
the limits of the present. And when you
step outside of linear time and enter
into what I call deep time that there
are many dimensions of time in the
universe there many levels of time.
There are many different modalities in
which the universe experiences itself
through the medium of time and it will
take you into these deep vast expanses
where you can experience a 100,000
years in the course of an hour. You can
experience an acceleration of time that
takes
you beyond your personal story into
humanity story. beyond your personal
growth into humanity's growth into the
larger evolution that the divine intent
is working to seed and and nourish and
bring forward in the human community.
Where are we going as a
collective? Shriarbindo, the great Hindu
sage, Oxford educated Hindu sage, I
always think that's interesting. That's
a story. He said, "Humanity is a
transitional
species. We're not stable. We are in
transitioning from what we were before
homo sapiens to what's coming
yet. Everything's in motion. Galaxies
are in motion. Earth systems are in
motion. Humanity is in motion. Where are
we going? What's it going to look
like? I have to watch my time here.
I want to inject a cautionary
note. I'm so happy that we're really
spending a lot of time. We're doing a
lot of writing and books are being
authored on uh integration the
importance of integration because
breaking out now we have these powerful
chemicals we can break out of time our
time space suit increasingly easily but
to do it in a way which is valuable to
do it the way which we can bring back
something that we can keep that's
actually a a harder part of the work
isn't it to bring it in first to
remember it because we can go so deep we
can't remember what we experienced. You
have to train yourself to remember the
deep experiences. If you go into the
deep waters, into the deep waters of the
ocean, if you go far beyond personal
identity, even far beyond human identity
into archetypal
reality, into causal levels of reality
and into what I call the diamond
luminosity reality or what Buddhism
calls dharmakaya, the clear light of
absolute reality. You go deep into that,
you come back, it's hard to remember
what your experience was. You have to
train yourself to remember those
experiences. The first step of
integration is to
remember. But my experience was that if
you go back systematically in a cleanly
defined, clearly
defined therapeutic
context, the first time you touch a new
level of reality, I would not always be
able to bring it all back. But if I went
back again and again and again to that
level of
reality, I would begin to be able to see
it more, understand more. There were
fewer gaps in my session notes. It
became clearer. I learned how to bring
it back. And I found that this pattern
repeated itself every time when I would
break into yet another deeper level of
reality. First there would be the kind
of chaos and the uncertainty and but
then with
repetition I could hold on to more of
it. I would bring it back. I would bring
it
in. The second reason I took so long to
write diamonds from heaven is not just
because I was afraid of losing my job.
And I like teaching. I like my job. I
like being with students. The second
reason is it took a long time. It takes
a long time to digest and understand
what our experiences are because a long
history of psychedelic
experiences, a long journey of
psychedelic work is very different than
just having one or two or three
interesting sessions on a Saturday
afternoon. And I think some of our
expectations of psychedelics have been
shaped by a
literary tradition around it which is
based upon very few psychedelic
experiences. Aldis Huxley wrote his
wonderful book the doors of perception
after only one experience and he wrote a
beautiful book on one experience. When
Houston Smith, the great dawn of
religious studies, wrote his book uh
cleansing the doors of perception where
he collected all of his essays on
psychedelics. He had taken LSD only six
times. He stopped then he said because
the bummer seemed to increase and it
wasn't as useful to him. And to me
that's when it starts to get
interesting. When the bummers increase
that means there some deep purification
taking place. something's coming forward
that's going to be hard for you to deal
with. That's when it gets interesting.
Or Michael Pollen when he wrote his very
important book on very important
contribution to the psychedelic
community. He had only taken
psychedelics a handful of times. And
this tends to create a set of
expectations and I think a very
shortsighted set of expectations about
what can happen in a psychedelic journey
in a psychedelic regimen. But if you go
through a long
journey, at least in my experience, it's
not just you're always starting from the
same spot and getting to the same level
and having experiences at that level. To
me, one goes through a series of death
and rebirth processes. And the death of
rebirth is a cycle as you go deeper and
deeper and deeper into the universe. As
deep as one, your medicine has the
capacity to carry you. Not all medicines
have the same capacity to carry you as
deeply. Okay, that's
fine. your capacity to withstand the
chaos that's inherent in deep
psychedelic exploration and the
tightness of your protocol whether your
protocol is really designed to holding
you in a very carefully contained
container aka to support you while you
go deep in and then come back out
integrate and then
internalize when I was at the end of my
journey and working up my notes in order
to write the book. I identified five
basic levels at which I had worked over
the course of time. The first is
personal mind, the level of personal
mind, psychonamic territory. The second
is the level of collective mind, the
collective psyche, Carl Young's
territory, but more than Carl Young's
territory.
Third level archetypal mind which is in
my context in that platonic sense of
archetypes not the yungian sense of
archetypes but the platonic sense of
archetypes is a domain of reality that
lies beyond human species beyond the
species
mind in a way just as in the personal
level your egoic mind has to fall away
for you to open up into the deeper
richer experience
In the collective
mind to get into archetypal reality, the
entire collective mind of humanity has
to fall away from you. You literally
lose all of your human roots.
You lose all of the background subtle
textures of human consciousness. All the
assumptions of human history, the
assumptions of human cognition drop
away and you enter into a reality of
archetypes into the reality of the
living beings who are responsible for
creating space and time. who are
responsible creating some of the four
fundamental core themes of space and
time. But beyond archetypal reality,
more cycles of death and rebirth
entering into causal reality where the
signature feature of causal reality is
permeating oneness, total total oneness.
Oneness has so many permutations, so
many iterations. But in deep causal
reality, the experiencing of life free
of all
dualities, radical
transparency, radical selflessness, no
self here, no self there, no self
anywhere in nature. The entire world, as
Platinus says, lives and breathes as
one. Us,
ants,
archetypes, all of us living and
breathing as one. to sink into that
oneness to the intelligence which is the
intelligence underneath it all. The
intelligence that is shaping us, driving
us, teaching us, expanding us, holding
us accountable in our rigorous learning
that time and space does and taking us
somewhere, somewhere deeper, somewhere
richer, somewhere more
satisfying. And then beyond calls of
love reality for me, the last 5 years of
my work were spent exploring what I came
to call the diamond
luminosity. More death and
rebirth. Entering into states
of luminous clarity, hyper hyper hyper
clear clear beyond imagination.
I began to understand better what the
Buddhists meant when they say touching
it once undos thousands of years of
karma because the hyperclarity it's
just once I touched that I wasn't
interested in anything else that I had
been exploring. I'd been 15 years
exploring all these other levels I
talked about. But that reality is so
profound and so
rich. It's the only thing I was
interested in was getting back to that
reality. And I got to that reality in
the last five years of my work and 26
sessions, which is an entire third of my
journey. I got to that reality only four
four
times. Four times out of 26 sessions. A
lot of work being done in those 26
sessions and other things, but only
touching that reality four times. And
they are for me the true diamonds from
heaven. Subtitle of the
book.
Caution. You can go deeper in the
universe than is wise for you to go.
You can go, you can have too much
God. That seems like an oxymoron, right?
Because you, oh, it's better to have
more of
God. But at least in this temporary,
this method which gives us temporary
access and then brings us back.
Temporary access and bring us back. I
think at least it's been my experience
and even though I paid a lot of
attention to integration all the way
through physical integration, subtle
energy integration, emotional
integration, social
integration, even though I had taken all
those precautions, I found in the end
that I had gone so deep into
transcendence. I had gone so deep into
the
subtle luminous body of the
divine that I lost my interest in living
inside time and space. Time and space
just began to feel kind of like
paperiermch when you know that this
reality is not as real as that reality
that is more real than this
reality. I lost I didn't lose my
bearings. I was doing my job, taking
care of my family, and doing all the
stuff that I ordinarily
do. But I found that I was just in my
heart, I was waiting to die so I could
go back cuz I reached a point in my work
where I knew I had to stop for reasons I
talked about in the book. 73 sessions.
If you're not cooked by 73 sessions,
forget it. 74 is not going to give it to
you. You
know, I was
cooked. I was overcooked.
I was waiting to die. I knew that I
would not do any more deep deep deep
work. And it to go deep, it takes years
and years. It's like training an Olympic
athlete. You don't run out and break the
takes years to develop the momentum, the
psychic momentum to be able to get back
into this territory. I could not get
back into the territory
today. Now that I've stopped this work
20 plus years, I could not get back in
the territory I was exploring at the
end, no matter how heavy a dose of LSD I
took today. It takes time to be able to
develop the momentum to move there. So I
reached a point where I knew I had to
stop. It was time to stop and I knew I
would not get back into this reality
until I died.
And this is one of the differences maybe
between using psychedelics for spiritual
awakening where the goal is to
be a goal is to consume all one's karmic
fixations and all one's blocks until one
can enter into the transparent condition
and enter into the deep communion with
the eternal dimension of existence as it
courses through this present moment
right
here. a noble goal and the spiritual
masters have always been my guides on my
journey. This is something different to
enter into so deep into deep time where
you're dealing with the evolutionary
story of humanity so deep into the light
which is the source from which the big
bang exploded.
When I stopped my sessions, after I
stopped my sessions, it took me about 10
years to sort of regground myself in
being committed to living out the rest
of my life inside time and space. And
when I say that, I don't mean that I was
I was totally functional in the world. I
was doing all the things I would have to
do. But in terms of recommitting myself
to living in the imminent divine instead
of immersing myself in the transcendent
divine, it took me 10 years to kind of
recommmit myself until I could be
comfortable living in the imminent
divine. And that's why a word of
caution, you can't go too deep. You
can't go deeper than years. Good for
you.
You can go deeper than
is good for your family, the people who
depend on you. Where is reincarnation
taking us? I've talked about the sort of
large trajectory. Where is reincarnation
taking
us? There was a point in my sessions
where, and
again, I haven't had, you know, I've
always envious of people who have
teachers, lots of teachers. I mean, I
think that's great. That's really
important. I don't have lots of
teachers. I've only had one teacher and
that's the universe. That's the
consciousness of the universe itself.
That's been my only teacher. And it's
been rigorous teacher. I mean, beat me
up, break me down, crush me, love me,
bring me back to life multiple times.
Only one
teacher. And so there was this one
particular day where the teacher seemed
to be interested in showing me where
reincarnation was taking us. And I
experienced all of my former lives
beginning to come back into me fast and
furious. I mean, I had done past life
therapy, had a sense of my history, but
this was larger. They were all coming
back very quickly. And it was like
wrapping kite string around a kite
spool. These lives were coming back. And
eventually they're reached a time where
they fused. They seemed to fuse into
one. And with that fusion there was an
explosion of energy that just exploded
inside my chest. And it was my first
deep contact with diamond
light. And I call this I was catapulted
into a state of consciousness where I
was an individual.
It wasn't like losing all boundaries and
entering into oneness. I was an
individual, but I was an individual
beyond any frame of reference I had ever
known
before. And I came to understand that
this is where reincarnation is taking
all of us, every one of
us. We reincarnate, we die, we come
back. We die, we get big into the soul,
we come back into our incarnate life. We
die. We get big into the soul. We come
back. And if we keep this
up, if we keep this rhythm up of
expansion, contraction, expansion, and
contraction, and keep it
up hundreds of thousands of years, we
keep it up, expanding, contracting,
dying, being born, dying, and being
born. Sooner or later, doesn't it make
sense? Sooner or later that the entire
totality of our lives which we meet when
we die when we return to our total
soul that that totality of integrated
historical experience would incarnate
eventually inside time and space and
that's what's happening I think with the
birth of the diamond soul we are giving
birth to the next form of human
consciousness and the next form Form of
human consciousness is a a human being
whose mind is the repository and the
integrated into a singularity of all the
experiences he or she they have ever had
in all of their lives. And now they look
at the world and they know they're not
this. They know they're not a
hundred-year-old being. They know that
their relationships are steeped in age
and steeped in time. They know that
their life projects are steeped in
thousands of years of practice, not a
hundred
years. I don't think we can continue to
run this planet on the basis of egoic
consciousness. The egoic consciousness
and and I think ego is a beautiful
thing. I'm not going to badmouth ego.
Individual consciousness is a
magnificent, beautiful, potentiating,
empowering
thing. But left to its own devices, it's
also tends to be cut off from each
other, cut off from the earth. We've
created a civilization based upon the
psychological limitations and assets of
egoic consciousness.
And right now this civilization is
generating problems of a magnitude which
I don't think can be solved operating
out of egoic
consciousness. We literally can no
longer afford the luxury of being
children on this planet. We have to grow
up.
And growing up, I think, means owning
ourselves, owning our histories, owning
our former lives, owning the destiny
that's carrying us through time, arching
through time, taking us into not our
plan for the human
future, but some I call it the divine.
I'm not always comfortable with that
word because, you know, it's been
sullied by our world's religions. But
the creative intelligence of the
universe, the creative intelligence
that's taking us into billions and
billions and billions of years more
still to come, which we have not
seen. Personally, I think we are
entering a time of history of profound
challenges. The challenges we're facing
are not simply political and social
challenges, though they're there.
They're not simply ecological
challenges, though that's going to
becoming more and more and more and more
powerful as we move forward deeper into
the 21st
century. At core, all of these
simps of a challenge of consciousness.
We literally do not know who we are. We
don't know what we are. All we have to
do is look at the White House to see
that we do not know who we are. We do
not know what we are. And we cannot
afford to run on this incomplete
knowledge any longer. The universe is
taking us into a profound death and
rebirth
process which in many ways will be very
similar to the death and rebirth process
that we have seen mystics go through
when they enter the dark night of the
soul. A time of intense purification,
purification, purification until their
natural spontaneous spiritual nature
shines free.
Just as happens in psychedelic sessions
when we go through those very dark
sessions which are just turgid and
they're painful and they're difficult
but you embrace it and you just take it
down to the bottom until you go through
the death process and then you're spun
into clarity, kindness, compassion,
understanding, wisdom.
I think the entire planet is going into
a death rebirth process. And that's why
ever since my book Dark Knight Early
Dawn, I talk about the dark night of our
collective soul, the purification of our
collective psyche, purification of our
collective
institutions. We are going into a period
which just as in a psychedelic session,
we lose control. We're losing control of
all the things we could thought we could
assume about culture and civilization.
We're losing
control of the ordinary assumptions of
life. We're going to be facing
challenges
unprecedented. The oceans are
rising. You know that you know the
scenarios. You don't I don't have to
repeat them. Just coming at us very
fast. Cities going underwater.
Mass migrations, eco egro migr migrants.
No, eco
migrants. We're entering into the time
of the great
undoing. Just as in a psychedelic
session or on a meditation
cushion, you have to face the
deepest fears, the deepest anger, the
deepest terrors in order
to melt into the truer condition, into
the lasting condition, into the true
peace that satisfies the inner
longing. Our culture is going through
that. I have no idea how it's going to
do it. But in my sessions, I have seen
it. I've experienced it in deep time. A
period of profound trauma, a profound
uncertainty, and a deep unraveling of
the human
community. And
yet my experience at least is that we
make it through this. We come through
it. We don't survive it. We
die. And we come through it changed,
transformed that in this international
crisis. We go through a process, an
experience that just breaks open the
human heart and oneness is born in the
human family, concentrated in some
individuals, subtly pervasive for the
collective as a whole. The theme of
oneness, the theme of compassion, the
theme that makes all our intelligence
and all our discoveries safe, we will
stop using them for war. We will stop
using them for destruction. We will
start using all of our talents to serve
the common good.
I think the global crisis that we're
going
into is synergistically coupled to the
psychosspiritual process that we are
going through in the birth of the
diamond soul. And as we experience our
perpetual transformation taking place in
our psychedelic sessions that is the
world is trying to become one. We cannot
solve our problems within the world of
nation
states. Just as the world is trying to
become one, the soul is trying to become
one. There's an inner wholeness here. We
are trying to become our deepest self,
our deep soul self, just as the world is
trying to become one. And there's a
synergistic coupling that I think that
as the
world transitions into and through this
crisis, the world is composed of souls.
And souls are not hundred-year-old
things. Souls are hundred,000y old
things. And the means that the humanity
that's going into this crisis is a
humanity of 100,000year-old
beings. And personally, I'd rather go
into a global crisis with 100,000y old
beings than I would with hundredy old
beings because we have the knowledge. We
have all the knowledge. We have the
capacity. It's within us.
This is one of the most exciting
centuries you could possibly be alive
in. I think that the changes by the end
of the 21st century and beyond, we will
be living in a very different world than
the world we're living in
now. I don't know how long it will take
us to make this navigate this. I think
at least three generations, maybe more.
This is not something which is going to
be accomplished quickly and easily.
And I'd like to
end by reminding ourselves of the power
of psychedelics to profoundly impact one
of the scariest things that human beings
go through in this life is
dying. My wife of 25 years, Christina,
died a month ago. six weeks
ago. She had
cancer. She like me was a psychonaut.
She had extensive experience of
spiritual
reality. And this completely changed her
death and my experience of her
death. She was not afraid of
dying. She knew where she was going. She
had had firsthand experience where she
was going. And that changes death from
an a sort of crushing experience of
defeat or fear and uncertainty into a
celebration of a life
well-lived. A life that was brought to
rich fruition conclusion and therefore
knowing that she was returning home into
the arms of the beloved. She was
returning home to the great mother which
had given birth to her. There's no fear
here. There's joy and
celebration. And this is the way it's
supposed to be. This is what the center
for conscious living and dying is
helping bring about in the community
here. This is what death really is.
Don't death is the celebration. Death.
You should mourn children who are being
born. They're beginning the hard
work. Death. You're graduating. You're
going back home.
Right.
Psychedelics. Christina had a lot of
psychedelic experience. It did not
psychedelics were not part of her active
dying process. It was already done
beforehand. She took what she had
learned into her dying and therefore
engaged death differently than other
people might engage death. If there were
one thing I wish I could take out of all
the psychedelic work I'd done for all
those years, if there were one thing I
wish I could just reach into my heart
and give it to people, it would be
please lose your fear of
death. If you're afraid of dying, you
have your cosmology all upside down.
Death is returning to the world of
plenty, the world of fullness, the world
of light, the world of super
intelligence, the world of
understanding, the world of infinite
compassion. Being born in Asheville,
maybe not so much, right? We have to
work hard here. We have to work
hard there. We receive the rewards of
the work that we've
done. What a revolution. 82 years since
that bicycle ride and we're just getting
started. Aaron said we're just getting
started. We are just in baby steps. If
we look forward 15 years, if we look
forward to 50 years, if we look forward
to a hundred years, just imagine if we
handle this transition well, if we
harness the energy of psychedelics
conscientiously, responsibly,
wisely, then we can affect, we can
accelerate this generational change that
we're trying that the I think nature and
the divine intelligence is trying to
bring about in the human family and we
are all part of this revolutionary
transition. Simply by being here we are
acknowledging that we are part of this
revolutionary
transition. Thank you very much.
Thank you so much everybody please. Dr.
Christopher
[Applause]
Beige just taking a moment to just honor
this man's profound courage. You know,
as I shared before, the mental health,
the healing dynamic is the onroad to our
reintegration of psychedelics into our
culture, into our community, and very
much an important onroad for many
reasons. But as he has shared, the
exploration into consciousness, into our
connection, to our spirituality, and to
our cosmology, there is a frontier
there, a profound frontier that maybe
many of the ancients might have been
aware of as well that we are re-stepping
into. So let's carry that in our hearts
as we are now expressions of this
possibility. We are active members in
this great learning that has been tasked
to us. How do we take these medicines
and grow and learn beyond the self into
a collective into a holistic being?
Thank you for watching and please
remember to like this video and to
subscribe to our channel. For more
information or to make a donation
towards our cause, please visit our
website.